This repository contains the data, code, and graphs for my final project for CMSC6950.



The folder `orig_data` contains the original data files found online.

The folder `data` contains reorganized files that are imported into the notebook. These files were made by reorganizing the data in the original files in Excel.

The folder `org_data` contains organized data files containing all the different datasets into a yearly or monthly list. These data files are those used to create the graphs and calculate statistics. These data files were made in Python by taking data from the files in the `data` folder and reworking it into a pandas dataframe. This dataframe was then saved as a csv file. A second pandas dataframe was made from the calculated annual datasets, and saved as a second csv file.

The folder `images` contains all the generated graphics from the code. These graphics are all saved as PDFs. All graphics in this folder can be generated by running the code in the .ipynb file.

There are a series of .ipynb files, which are all responsible for holding and running code which produces the required plots. These files include:
* DataReorganization.ipynb: Reorganizes the files from the folder `data`. The data is reorganized into dataframes which are then saved as .txt files, which are stored in the folder `org_data`. These files are then called in the other notebooks to use for performing tasks on the data.
* GeneralData.ipynb: This notebook is used to plot the organized data. 
* Trends.ipynb: This notebook is used to calculate the trends of the datasets and plot these datasets.
* Extrapolation.ipynb: This notebook is used to extrapolate the data using the calculated trends.
* Extreme_Values.ipynb: This notebook is used to calculate the extreme values of the datasets, and to calculate the 10th and 90th wuantiles of the datasets.
* MonthYear.ipynb: This notebook is used to remove the yearly trends from the original datasets to view and analyze the monthly variations of the dataset along the course of a year.

Finally, there is a copy of the ``DataReorganization'' file as a .py file, which contains all the same code. There is a second .py file called ``test_DataReorganization''. The purpose of these files is to test the calculation of the average annual data. The test file uses pytest, and contains various tests of this function, to ensure that it performs the averaging correctly. This file can be tested by running the command ``python3 -m pytest -v test_DataReorganization.py'' at the command line while in the same directory as these files.
